standardized BARThez model card (#39701)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/barthez.md

        ">
    </div>
</div>

# BARThez

> [BARThez](https://huggingface.co/papers/2010.12321) is the first monolingual French [BART](https://huggingface.co/papers/1910.13461) model, pretrained on a large, adapted French corpus using BART’s denoising objectives. By pretraining both its encoder and decoder, it is uniquely equipped for generative tasks in French, unlike existing French [BERT](https://huggingface.co/papers/1810.04805)‑based models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[BARThez](https://huggingface.co/papers/2010.12321) is a [BART](./bart) model designed for French language tasks. Unlike existing French BERT models, BARThez includes a pretrained encoder-decoder, allowing it to generate text as well. This model is also available as a multilingual variant, mBARThez, by continuing pretraining multilingual BART on a French corpus.
```

You can find all of the original BARThez checkpoints under the [BARThez](https://huggingface.co/collections/dascim/barthez-670920b569a07aa53e3b6887) collection.

> [!TIP]
> This model was contributed by [moussakam](https://huggingface.co/moussakam).

> > Click on the BARThez models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply BARThez to different language tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Refer to the [BART](./bart) docs for more usage examples.
```

> The example below demonstrates how to predict the `[MASK]` token with [`Pipeline`], [`AutoModel`], and from the command line.

Reviewer: It should be `<mask>` token

<hfoptions id="usage">
<hfoption id="Pipeline">

```py
import torch
from transformers import pipeline

pipeline = pipeline(
    task="fill-mask",
    model="moussaKam/barthez",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device=0
)

> pipeline("Les plantes produisent [MASK] grâce à un processus appelé photosynthèse.")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pipeline("Les plantes produisent <mask> grâce à un processus appelé photosynthèse.")
```

```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="AutoModel">

```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoModelForMaskedLM, AutoTokenizer

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained(
    "moussaKam/barthez",
)
model = AutoModelForMaskedLM.from_pretrained(
    "moussaKam/barthez",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",

>     attn_implementation="sdpa"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

)

> inputs = tokenizer("Les plantes produisent [MASK] grâce à un processus appelé photosynthèse.", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inputs = tokenizer("Les plantes produisent <mask> grâce à un processus appelé photosynthèse.", return_tensors="pt").to("cuda")
```

with torch.no_grad():
    outputs = model(**inputs)
    predictions = outputs.logits

masked_index = torch.where(inputs['input_ids'] == tokenizer.mask_token_id)[1]
predicted_token_id = predictions[0, masked_index].argmax(dim=-1)
predicted_token = tokenizer.decode(predicted_token_id)

print(f"The predicted token is: {predicted_token}")
```

</hfoption>
<hfoption id="transformers CLI">

```bash

> echo -e "Les plantes produisent [MASK] grâce à un processus appelé photosynthèse." | transformers run --task fill-mask --model moussaKam/barthez --device 0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
echo -e "Les plantes produisent <mask> grâce à un processus appelé photosynthèse." | transformers run --task fill-mask --model moussaKam/barthez --device 0
```

```

</hfoption>
</hfoptions>

> ## Notes

Reviewer: No need for this `## Notes` section

- BARThez implementation is the same as BART, except for tokenization. Refer to [BART documentation](bart) for information on 
configuration classes and their parameters.

> ## Resources

Reviewer: Can remove this `## Resources` section as well
